# Framework Overview

All capabilities of the .NET frameworks comes from a set of managed type. These types are organized into a set of assemblies, with the CLR comprise the .NET framework

these types resides in an asseblmu called "mscorlib.dll"
* includes built-in type
* basic collection classes
* types for streaming processing, serializeation, reflection, threading and native interoperability (what is this?)

at a level above this are additional types "flesh out" the CLR-level functionality.
* XML
* networking
* LINQ

these resides in 
* System.dll
* System.Xml.dll
* System.Core.dll

these with __mscorlib.dll__ forms the "core framework"

## Reference Assemblies

When compiling a program, you need to reference frameworks that your program consumes. for example if you wrote `using Some.Lib`, you need to add this assmebly to your project.

but this is for the benefit of the compiler, you need to tell the compiler I have this assmebly that contains the classes I'm using in order for it to compile. This compile time assembly need not to be the actual one at runtime.

this is how .NET standard is implemented. When compiling your code into assembly you reference a dummy assmebly called __netstandard.dll__ , which contains the allowable code and types in .NET standard 2.0, when you run this the reference will be redirected through __assembly redirection attribute__ to the actual runtime assembly depending on your platform.

for the same reason you can compile with .NET 4.7 and run it with .NET 4.0 reference assmeblies
