# Working Set Estimation

The working set size (WSS) is how much memory an application needs to keep working.

* Your application may have 100Gbytes of main memory allocated and page mapped
  * so your program maps 100G of memory, obviously you don't have 100G ram, so pages will mounted to disk

* but it's only touching 50Mbytes per second to do its job
  * that's the working set size: the hot memory that is frequently used

OS usually show's these metrics

1. Virtual Memory: For on-demand memory systems like linux, `malloc()` immediately returns virtual memory, which is only promoted to real memory later when used via a page fault

2. Resident memory: Main memory, Real memory pages that are currently mapped

3. Proportional set size: RSS with shared memory divided amoung users

These are easily tracked by the kernel

* since kernel do virtual memory stuff so it actually knows what your main memory allocation looks like

but applications running in user-mode has no idea, it just see all the memory and assume they are all real memory

## Observing Paging/Scanning Metrics

so basically there are 2 metrics we can look at for memory paging, and then we discuss there relationship to memory management.

1. Sustained Paging: as the name suggest this is the program constantly doing paging exchange with a (disk or something) you mounted.
  On Linux, you are required to configure a swap device (some disk you have), which on many other systems this is not the case, I just checked on windows your C drive is used for page file

  So just a little bit of background to refresh the memory

  when you run some application, the CPU will load the image (code) into memory and any file, resource you access will also be thrown into memory. now with the many process you've spawn eventually you used up all the physical memory, and now you need to do paging.

  however paging does not always happen, the reason you want paging is because you need to keep a snapshot, but remember where the page came in the first place. from disk. so there is already a copy of that image on disk, if you've made no change to the file or image than this snapshot is not needed, as you can get the same thing by reloading the image, file from disk again.

  so you only need to do paging if you have edited the resource, image.
2. Sustained Scanning: In older linux, there is a page scanner
  so when there is a page in request and memory is full, a page out is needed, this is when the scanner would run and scan all the pages.

by running `vmstat` on linux you get the values for paging and scanning.

* scanning is warning that you are running out of memory (since you are constantly looking to page out)
* paging means you are running out of memory and edited data exits